hello everybody so today's video we will
be talking about CMOS so a CMOS
basically is a well it stands for
complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
so it's like a logical transistor that
is used to perform logical functions and
the CMOS is essentially divided into two
main parts and these two main parts are
simply two types of MOSFET transistors
so the first one here is a PMO's
the MA stands for MOSFET and the P
essentially stands for whole
concentrated and that whole is basically
this hole right here and the basic
function of this P Mo's transistor is
that whenever you input something it's
going to give us the opposite result so
in simple terms what we have is input
with a low and a high and that low and
the high get represent binary numbers so
low represents zero and the high
represents one and for this P moss when
we input something low it's going to
give us the opposite result which is
high respectively if we have an input
that is high then the output is going to
be low and that's how it goes for ap
Mo's and that's our first MOSFET
transistor that covers half of our CMOS
the other half is called an N Mo's
and the N Moss is basically just the
opposite of what a P Moss is and then an
Moss is electron concentrated so it
doesn't have that hole and the following
results when we input something glow
we're going to get the same value so if
we have the input which is low the
output is given that our output is going
to be high if our input is high and our
output is going to be high as well well
sorry my pad if our input is low sorry
if the input is low then the output is
going to be low as well therefore if the
input is high the output is going to
give us high because for an N Mo's
transistor we're going to get the value
of our output whatever our input value
is so I'm sorry if I label this first as
high and that's it for what a CMOS is
and if we combined our P Moss and our n
MOS together this is how it's going to
look like so this right here would be
our p MOS and here would be our n loss
and in simple terms if we combine these
two together and we have our voltage
source connected to the source of our P
Mo's and the ground connected to our
drain of the or source of the N Mo's
we're going to have an inverter and the
basic fundamental device of a CMOS is an
inverter
and also Appy Moss is part of the n-type
substrate and the N Moss is part of the
p-type substrate in addition if you want
to clarify and state that this is a
number well let's test out our input so
let's say that what we do know about an
inverter is that whenever we have when
we input something is going to give us
the opposite effect so for P moss and n
Moss together if we stick them together
and we have if they share the same input
this is going to what's going to be like
so let's say that we have an input and
we set it as low once it's low the P
Moss is going to give us the output as
high so when it's high the transistor is
closed the transistor is turned on and
the voltage traveled across the P MOS
transistor to the output for the n MOS
the input is a low then the n MOS the
transistor for that is going to be open
it's turned off so it's going to be
opened so the ground does not travel to
the output therefore the output is going
to give us high or the magnitude of what
the voltage is now if the input is high
P Moss will be turned off because it
gives us the opposite effect and then
the N Moss is going to be turned on so
it will be closed in the ground the
magnitude of the voltage in the ground
which is a zero will travel to the
output so the output is going to be low
and I'm just going to draw the output
table for this
just so you guys would be able to recap
with what I just said the last minute
and a half so our input right here zero
and one and our output will be 1 and 0
and this right here is what a inverter
is and this inverter is basically formed
by having a P mas and n must form
together and this thing creates what our
CMOS is so that's how CMOS operates I
hope you guys enjoyed this video and
I'll see you in the near future so you
guys checked out my CMOS video now I
highly recommend you guys to check out
the box below which is a practical
example on where we use CMOS to design a
function